
# Clearview AI's controversial facial recognition software 
This assignment explores the ethical implications of Clearview AI's powerful software and the privacy issues surrounding its database of billions of images of people scraped from sites such as Facebook and Twitter. The company's clients are restricted to only law-enforcement agencies, who use the software to aid in criminal investigations, but it remains controversial. I'll present two opposing viewpoints in this paper, as some argue that, if regulated carefully, the technology has many positive and beneficial applications, while others argue that the database and software violates the privacy of individuals and has the potential to be abused. 


## Article 1
In the Wall Street Journal's [The Promise and Peril of Facial Recognition](https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-promise-and-peril-of-facial-recognition-11610579445), the authors argue that while facial recognition technology in general has the potential be used for nefarious purposes, Clearview AI's technology can be a powerful tool for law-enforcement agencies, as it was recently used to identify members of the Capitol Hill Riot. Moreover, there are numerous others applications of the technology, such as preventing identity theft and catching terrorists. Ultimately, the authors believe that lawmakers should introduce regulations to prevent abuses of power and unnecessary surveillance. If these safeguards are in place, the technology can and should be used to fend off various forms of criminal activity.

## Article 2
On the other hand, in TechCrunch's [Clearview AI ruled ‘illegal’ by Canadian privacy authorities](https://techcrunch.com/2021/02/03/clearview-ai-ruled-illegal-by-canadian-privacy-authorities/), a Canadian privacy watchdog determined that Clearview AI violated Canada's privacy laws by building a database containing people's photos and personal information, without their knowledge or consent, and used their information for inappropriate reasons. The privacy organization threatened potential legal action, unless Clearview AI stops collecting information on Canadian citizens and deletes all of it's old data collected on Canadians in the past. Canada's privacy commissioner went so far as to say, "What Clearview does is mass surveillance and it is illegal. It is an affront to individuals’ privacy rights and inflicts broad-based harm on all members of society". 

Facial recognition technologies still seem to be in the early stages of development, and there is plenty of room for these softwares to improve and grow. If they are used for the right reasons, by trusted authorities, they can be a useful technology in terms of catching criminals and discouraging criminal activity. On the other hand, they remain contentious, due to the potential violation of people's privacy. As the technologies continue to advance, it will be interesting to see how they are regulated, and if the technologies will be used responsibly, or if they will be used for inappropriate reasons.  